All right, guys, we're going to get started.
So you should have in your section files, you should have this project resources folder, which has
all the images that we need for the project, as well as the typewriter script that we're going to include
for the effect on the home page.
So what we're going to do is create a new folder for our website.
I'm just going to call this portfolio website and inside here we're going to have a dist folder.
So I'm going to create a folder called Dist, which is going to be all the files that we would deploy,
the standard CSS files and so on outside of this will have our SAS files and everything.
So in this DIST folder we want to take the image and the JavaScript folder and just bring that in.
So now what I'm going to do is open up our portfolio website folder with V's code and we should have
a DIST folder with the image and the JavaScript.
All right.
So in addition to image and JavaScript in our DIST folder, I'm going to create for now just our index
HTML.
We'll create the rest of the HTML files later.
Now we need to get SAS set up.
So I'm going to be using Node SAS.
So I'm going to open up my integrated terminal here and to install Node SAS, we need NPM installed,
which comes with Node.js.
So if you don't have that on your system, just go to Node.js dot org and download and install it and
then just do an NPM dash dash version just to verify that you actually have NPM installed.
So first thing we want to do here is do NPM init, which will initialize a packaged JSON file, which
is basically like a manifest file that has some info about the app as well as the any packages we install
such as Node SAS.
So let's just hit enter here description.
I'm going to say portfolio website and we'll just go through all the rest of this.
So that will create a package JSON outside of your DIST folder.
And what we want to do now is install node SAS.
So we're going to say NPM, install node dash SAS and we can install this as a dev dependency.
So we're just going to do Dash DD because it's only used in development.
And that should get.
That should show up right here.
Good.
And so in order to, you know, use Node SAS, we need to create a script.
So I'm going to replace this test with SAS so that we can just do NPM, run SAS, and we want it to
run Node SAS, we want it to watch.
So we're going to do w a folder called SAS Slash.
So it's going to watch that folder for any SAS files.
And then the output of the regular CSIS is going to go to DIST slash CSIS like that.
And then we're just going to add dash dash recursive on the end.
So that's the command that we want to run when we run Node SAS or I'm sorry, end PM run SAS.
So let's save that.
And now what we'll do is create our success folder, make sure this is outside of your dist folder.
You want it outside because this isn't something that you're going to deploy when you put this on a
server.
This is just for development.
This stuff gets compiled down to regular CSS inside of our DIST folder.
All right, so let's create our main SAS file.
We're going to have a couple of them, but we're going to create our main one.
So I'm just going to call it main CSS.
And let's just do for now just to make sure everything works, we'll create a variable called color
and let's set that to red and then let's just put in our body and let's do background and set that to
the variable color.
So I'm going to save this and nothing's going to happen because we didn't run PM Run.
SAS So I'm going to clear this up down here and just do NPM, run SAS.
And now what it's doing is watching the SAS folder and in any time we save it's going to then compile
it into dist CSS.
Now we didn't create CSS in DIST, it'll actually create it for us.
So if I just do anything, just put a character in and delete it and save, you'll see.
Now it created a CSS folder with a main CSS file and it's just standard CSS and that's what we would
deploy.
So from here on out, you don't want to touch this CSS file, you want to strictly deal with SAS.
All right.
Now, the next thing I want to do is go to our index HTML.
Let's put some boilerplate in here and let's say we'll just do for the title.
Let's say I'm going to put John Doe, but you can put your own name and let's just say UI, UX designer
and photographer.
So that's that's basically what this fictional character specializes in, if you're going to use this.
I mean, I give you guys permission to use this as your portfolio if you want, you'll just have to
change things around to whatever it is you specialize in.
So let's see, we want to include our main CSS files.
So let's do that.
We'll put in a link to CSS slash main CSS and we also want font.
Awesome.
So I'm just going to jump into Chrome real quick.
And let's go to font.
Awesome.
Dot com.
Start using free and then we'll grab this link right here and let's put that right above the main CSS
like that.
All right.
And then in the body for now, let's just put an H one and we'll just just say hello, just to make
sure that we can that this works.
All right, so if I go ahead and run this with live server, I'm going to right click and say Open with
live server.
We should get a red background.
And the reason for that is because in our SAS file we set the variable to red, we set the body background
to that variable node, SAS compiled it when we saved it into CSIS, main CSIS, and then that's being
included in our index HTML.
So that's going to be our workflow from now on.
Now what I'd like to do before we start with the markup with the HTML is import our font.
We're going to be using a font called Dosis or dosis.
I'm not exactly sure out of how you probably pronounce it and then set up some variables and also just
set some of our core styles like the Reset, some of the body styles and so on.
All right.
Now I'm going to close this main course because I want to be careful not to touch that.
We only want to be dealing with our SAS files, so let's first grab the font.
So I'm going to go to Google Fonts or what is it fonts dot Google and we're going to go ahead and do
a search for Dos.
Dos is hit this plus sign and go down here and let's grab the link right here and paste that in.
Let's go right above our CSS main CSS file and now we should be able to use this font family.
So I'm going to grab that.
And then we'll go into our main dot Cece file.
Let's get rid of this.
We're not going to be using that.
And in our body, let's say font actually we just paste that in.
So font family dosis sans serif.
And if I save that, it should show up.
If we go back and you can see now the fonts changed.
So let's add just some, some core styling here as far as the reset goes, the body, stuff like that.
So I'm just going to put a comment here and just say General Styles.
So our reset, I just want to clear the margin and padding for everything.
So margin zero, padding zero.
And let's take for the body we're going to set.
Whoops, we already did the body.
What am I thinking?
We get to move this.
Let's actually just move this down here.
That.
And aside from the font family.
Oops.
Let's add a line height.
And let's make that 1.6, and then the background is just going to be white.
Now for links, I want all links to I want to remove the underline.
So I'm going to do text decoration none.
And for the color, we're going to use the dark color variable.
So before we move on, I'm going to go into my sex folder.
I'm going to create a new file.
I'm going to call this underscore config dot success.
So this is going to be a partial that we include.
And this is where I want to put all of our variables.
All right.
So let's go ahead and say variables
and let's see, we'll do I want to have a website width so we can change that easily if we want.
So we're going to change that.
We're going to set that to 1280 pixels by default.
All right.
And then let's do the main dash color and we'll set that to F, B, C, zero zero.
So it's kind of like a yellowish color.
And then I'm going to set a light and a dark color.
So the light color is going to be f four, three times, which is a light gray.
And then the dark color is going to be three, three, three.
Let's also do a medium color as well.
So we'll say medium color and that's going to be sexy.
All right.
And then the last thing I want to set is the background image so that we can easily change that.
So big image and set that to URL.
And in here we want to do a dot, dot, slash, IMG slash, and it's going to be the showcase image.
So showcase dot jpeg.
All right.
Now, you might notice that this location doesn't pertain to where we currently are in this in the SDSS
folder.
We're not going out and then into image because the image is actually in the disk folder.
However, when we compile our SAS, we're going to be in this CSS folder.
So we want to make sure that our location to any images pertain to being in this file.
So hopefully that makes sense.
We want to go out of this CSS into the I'm sorry, into the image folder.
So keep that in mind when you're dealing with SAS.
So let's save this and let's bring this in to our file here.
So remember to bring in a partial we just use at import and then we use just the name, not the underscore
or the dot CSS, just simply config and that should bring in our variables.
And then for the a tag, I'm going to set the color to the dark color.
The downside about putting the variables in a separate file when using vs code is they don't show up
automatically.
Like if you put a number sign, I'm sorry, a dollar sign and you had the variables in the same file,
you'd get a little drop down with the variable names, but we're not going to get that because they're
in a separate file and you don't have to put them in a separate file.
If you guys see something that you want to do differently, that's absolutely fine.
In fact, I encourage that.
I don't encourage just straight copying everything if you have your own ideas or your own your own ways
of doing things.
So let's for the ULS, let's do a list style none because I don't want any bullets anywhere on the site
and then I actually want all of the headings to be uppercase.
So I'm going to say h two.
H three, h four.
Um.
Wait a minute.
Yeah.
Do I want the H ones?
Yeah, it's just the H two, h three and H four that I want uppercase.
So let's do text transform and set that to uppercase.
And then all the images by default should have a width of 100%.
So we're just keeping them in their containers.
So I think that's pretty much it as far as just the core styles.
And obviously we haven't done any nesting or anything because we haven't had to.
These are just these are just core general styles.
So let's go ahead and save that and it should update.
So if we take a look, I mean, actually, there's nothing really to update because we don't have any
content, but those styles should be in effect.
In fact, if we look at the source code and we look at our main CSIS, you'll see we have those styles
and we have three, three, three for the color for the a tag, which is actually our SAS variable for
dark color.
All right.
So I think that that's as far as I want to take it in this video and the next one, we're going to start
working on our markup.
So we'll start down here, start creating the header area with the nav bar, the logo and all that stuff.
All right.
So I'll see you in the next video.